Urban Metaverse for Participatory Planning 
Persistent Civic World 
Urban Metaverse for Participatory Planning 
Living Digital Twin 

We need very sophisticated advanced algorithms techniques methods to represent multiplayer 3D spaces and make sure we dont need to store a lot of data - make sure we store least data to have live Forooms - we want to deploy the first version on vercel and we want to make it open source on github  

We want to make a web based game application, a serious multiplayer game that will be used for citizen participation in urban design and planning and is a tool to empower citizens and allow a tool for interaction engagement and communication in digital twin virtual digital environments 

“Foroom” is a core element of the system, it is a virtual 3D space which is created by transforming OSM data into minecraft like voxel world - the application uses open sources to fetch real data and enables creation of a digital twin 3D virtual space which can then be changed by the users and transformed as a design participation and design communication process and this virtual digital twin forum becomes a place where citizens can login join and participate give ideas proposals vote chat and all of this is performed as a minecraft like game in 3D space and users also have option to see the 2D map with everything active seen from top because user can explore the space from first person or 3d person and see the avatar and see placed ideas proposals in 3D space.

The landing page is a large satellite map on the left part of the screen where visitors can explore to see forums overlaid on top of the map as their respective boundaries, and users can zoom in and zoom out to see different regions. Users can hover over forum areas on the map to have a window pop up containing details. On the right part of the screen is a panel where the login sign up section is and a button which pops up the info and is signed by Institute for Applied Design Intelligence. This part will be additionally edited about signature and links and contact and so. 

When a user logs in they can still see the map with forums and now they can click on the forum areas on the map to have a join button. Users can also create forums and see created forums on the dashboard. Users have to choose a nickname and can login with email or Google but their login is important as they will have roles assigned and so. User also receives a unique randomly textured avatar represented by big sphere for head and small inverted cone/pyramid with varying number of vertices forming the circle base so we have different shapes for body under the sphere and the avatar should be in proportion with the world we should consider making one voxel size 1 meter by 1 meters or 2 meters by 2 meters depending on the performance but we want the avatar be 2 meters tall. In the game we want the user to be able to switch from 3rd person camera and first person camera like the original mine craft. 

Users can create Forooms after they login but admin has to give final approvement of forum creation. Each forum has a link and can be shared for direct access without login, we want users to be able to for example join the 3D Foroom and walk around without login and we want to make sure that everything is optimized for performance and visually on canvas both on mobile and desktop. So Foroom becomes like a shareable metavrse. Admin login is poturaksemir@gmail.com and can be also Google log in with the same email and admin can make forums, delete forums, allow users to create forums. 

The user creates the Foroom by selecting the bounding rectangle on the satellite map. We need to make sure things remain optimal and performative so there needs to be careful evaluation and limitations of maximal bounding area that will eventually get turned into voxel minecraft like world for interaction and multiplayers. The application fetches the osm data and creates a beautiful voxel world where osm data is transformed first into 2d grid of squares 1x1 meter or 2x2 meters and based on osm data the buildings roads and other elements are marked on the grid then the voxels are stacked to represent buildings and roads remain flat and we can look for different elements that can be fetched from osm and have them represented in 3D space as voxelized like trees waterways and so depending which area is fetched. User gives the Foroom a name and description and after clicking a button “create” the application automatically fetches osm data and on the left where the satellite map is eventually a 3d generated voxel world is opened. We want to make sure we create a realistic digital twin where buildings will be represented as stacked voxels based on their vector outline floorplan available from osm and also we should think how to procedurally make sure that other spaces, roads, streets are represented in a way to contribute to realistic feeling of the world and recognizability. 

The creator of the Foroom has an admin role and can give roles to other users. There is a role Citizen who can just walk around and this includes users who joined via link without login, Participant who can post comments in space and change textures of blocks, then Builder who can do all of what the Participant can do but also can remove or add blocks and Admin who can do all of that. We need to figure out limitations in terms of live players globally and per foroom u need to calculate that and also optimize from the perspective of database conceptualization and implementation. 

We want the admin to be able to procedurally define through sliders some visualization and appearance parameters like skybox building appearance and so. Application should be able to match the osm data with voxel textures in order to create a realistic appearance - gray for roads green for greenery and buildings can vary but should be adjustable. Introduce maybe some cheap shadows as well and maybe night mode and lights as well. 

Foroom functionalities - Foroom has three layers : Council, Playground and Simulation - users can switch between the layers and these would represent like two separate digital twins - Its like player is inside two worlds at the same time, two digital twins and can switch between them in real time - Council would serve as a realistic space which is an accurate real time digital twin which serves for people to mark and position different elements in the 3d space in different spots without possibility to remove or add blocks (only Builders can add or remove blocks in the Council world) and in the Playground world Participants too can also remove and add blocks but in the Playground each user has a limited number of blocks and can place them around or remove them and each player gets a uniquely textured block - we need to have a system specially designed to randomly generate users avatar and unique block but its important to preserve minecraft aesthetics and pixelized like outlook. So in Playground buildings can be demolished or new spaces can be created using blocks but in the Council mode only Builders can add and remove blocks. In Council mode Participants, Builders and Admin can place notes “inside” voxel blocks - we want to allow them to click on the block and have a window open to read what others have placed inside and ability to place note, poll, and we want blocks that have more content to glow more and this should be visible on 2D map we want to see activity as glow heatmap across the map. In the Simulation mode there is a real time simulation happening the space is automatically shifting and changing dynamically based on different locally available data proposals and external open source data such as weather or other datasets.

We want users to be easily to navigate inside Forooms via web browsers on desktop and mobile, using keyboard and mouse or joystick on mobile with tap and move to look around and tap for block placement removal or other interactions with blocks while on desktop its a click. These are just proposals make sure that you analyze them compare them with best practices and eventually have the best solutions. 

Foroom has an AI protector that can be turned on or off and it means admins can connect the popular API providers such as Open Router and the AI will monitor the Foroom and provide insights, comments, will interact. We need to have somewhat system settings for generic AI protector and allow admins a dashboard to actually setup the protector the way they want to give them identity they want. The AI protector is also automatically running the Simulation and is shaping the Space. We want to have a specific rhythm of API calling we dont want it to be hyper active and work all the time but have some timers and yet allow the AI to interact and respond to users via chat since each Foroom has a chat too where Participants Builders and Admin can chat. Builders can open new chatrooms besides the main one and make them visible or not to Participants and Citizens. 

All available forums
Forum roles and access

Main elements

User login, profile creation, user dashboard, personal analytics, joined forums
Explore Forums
Forum initiation by the user

Create user account google log in and email
Make avatar and name and profile description and user have ratings by others see owned and joined forums

Creating a Forum

Choose Open Street Map Area
Turn it into procedural minecraft area
Color it so the surfaces matches roads buildings green area and other surfaces - remap OSM data into realistic textured world
Project satellite image onto voxels as an optional overlay

OSM is a basic data  set which further evolves

Join a Forum

Invite Neighboors

Games
Allow users to put comments
FPS 

Allow chat inside the forum
